Odd that we select the heads of agencies by who is most qualified. But we select Presidents by whose personality we like best.
Any time we're impressed by what a non-human animal does, it's simply because we previously underestimated its intelligence.
Possible evidence that Cows want to jump over the Moon: To the astrophysicist’s ear, they're actually saying Moooooon.
As none other, he explored the private universe of our minds — awakening us all to ourselves. RIP @oliversacks (1933-2015)
An informed opinion is never based on somebody else’s opinion, lest you empower others to do your thinking for you.
Jupiter is 11x wider than Earth. But Earth is only 5x wider than Pluto.  So Jovians surely demoted us to DwarfPlanet long ago.
All previous times the Hare beat the Tortoise, nobody wrote a fable about it.
Yup, “Ancient Sea Salt” would be a scientifically accurate branding for ordinary table salt.
Just an FYI: All table salt is sea salt. Mined salt just happens to come from long-buried, evaporated, prehistoric seas.
Roses are Red, Violets are, I suppose, Violet.
Well, if you’re not part of the Solution, then you must be part of the Precipitate.
A Geeky joke I'm compelled to share: In Chemistry class the cylinders know more than you do because they're already graduated.
Summer Thought: If you convert a bug zapper to a human zapper, scaling by body mass, you’d receive a jolt of 50 billion volts.
Odd. Those who feel superior are often compelled to tell others, presumably because it’s not otherwise obvious to anyone.
After Koalas, Australian animals seem to come in only three varieties: those who want to eat you, inject venom in you, or hop.
Three more Geeky southern constellations:  Octans, The Octant; Sextans,The Sextant; Reticulum, The Eyepiece Crosshairs.
More Geeky southern constellation: Microscopium, The Microscope; Fornax, The Lab Furnace; Horologium, The Pendulum Clock.
Geeky constellation names -- all in the Southern Skies: Antlia, The Air Pump, Telescopium, The Telescope. Pyxis, The Compass.
Many constellations in the Southern Skies are Geeky, having been formally named during the Industrial Revolution.
Visitors wax poetic about Southern Hemisphere skies. Why? Light pollution in the North leaves most of us starved for darkness.
Capt. Cook mapped coastlines on his southern scientific voyage. Within two decades England colonized NewZealand & Australia.
In 1769, Captain Cook voyaged to the South Pacific to observe a rare passing of Venus directly between Earth and the Sun.
Champagne lovers might like to know that the second brightest star in the Southern Cross, Beta Crux, is also called “Mimosa".
There’s no middle star in the rectangular Southern Cross to anchor the transept. More accurate to call it "Southern Rhombus".
The Southern Cross is a tad over-rated: It’s the smallest of all 88 — a fist at arm’s length covers it entirely.
More thoughts coming, for all those who live south of Earth's equator...
The only “down" on Earth is towards its center. So Aussies
are Down Under only to Northern chauvinists.
Okay with female deers & drops of golden sun. But always felt that "La" deserved a better identity than "a note to follow So”.
Yup. Werewolves and other Luna-tics just love months with double Full Moons.
Average cycle of Lunar phases is 29.5 days. So everybody except February can get a 2nd Full Moon. Happens every 2.5yrs, or so.
Full Moon Friday. The second in July. For bad historical reasons we call it a "Blue Moon”. It’s not Blue. It’s not even rare.
Because of centrifugal forces, if the Pillsbury Doughboy were a figure skater, then fast spins would be a high-risk activity.
Ancient Geek Proverb: To be a genius is to be misunderstood. But to be misunderstood is not to be a genius.
Other eight-fingered life-forms who probably count in Base-8:  @HomerJSimpson, Bugs Bunny, Elmer Fudd, Goofy, @PeterGriffin.
With eight fingers each, I’m guessing Mickey Mouse and Fred Flintstone both use Base-8 for all their arithmetic.
Dear Twittererse: I am a servant of your curiosity. And it’s a privilege to share with you my cosmic musings in this medium.
Passed 4-million Twitter followers over the weekend. A milestone only because we count in base 10.  In base 16 it’s 3D0900.
I’ll take the Heebies, not the Jeebies. The Flim, not the Flam. And I’ll always take the Proof, with or without the Pudding.
I further like the Hocus, but not the Pocus. The Hodge, but not the Podge. And definitely the Boogie without the Oogie.
I’m a fan of Nooks, but not Crannies. The Kit, but not the Caboodle. And the Hanky, but not the Panky.
And yes, over the years, my relationship with Pluto has been strictly Plutonic.
"Good writing evokes sensation: not the fact it is raining, but the feeling of being rained upon.” RIP ELDoctorow (1931-2015)
The next time anybody asks me about my religion, I think I’ll reply “Geek Orthodox”.
Dear Pluto,
Lookin’ good. But you’re still a Dwarf Planet — get over it.
Love, Neil deGrasse Tyson.
Were it not for @NASA & kindred programs of discovery, I wonder what hope would remain for our species to rise above itself.
#PlutoFacts: @NewHorizons2015 went 4-billion miles to buzzcut Pluto by 120,000 miles. A hole-in-one on a 2-mile golf shot.
First rule of Science: Must Finish experiment before you die. @NewHorizons2015 was launched fast. Reached Pluto in 9 years.
#PlutoFacts: As reported in the @NYTimes in 1930, when discovered, Pluto was presumed to be the size of Earth.
#PlutoFacts: Pluto would fit comfortably between New York & Dallas. Between Rome & Moscow.  Between Perth & Melbourne.
#PlutoFacts: The moons Ganymede Titan Callisto Europa Io Titan & our Moon are all bigger than Pluto. Get over that one too.
#PlutoFacts: In the @Disney pantheon, Goofy wears clothes, is bipedal, owns a home. Pluto is butt naked, lives in a dog house.
#PlutoFacts: In the @Disney pantheon, Mickey wears clothes & Pluto does not. Enabling Mickey (a mouse) to own Pluto (a dog).
#PlutoFacts: In 1979, Pluto crossed Neptune’s orbit, and for 20 years was the eighth “planet” in the solar system.
#PlutoFacts Pluto’s primary moon Charon is so large that their mutual center-of-mass lies not within Pluto but in empty space.
#PlutoFacts: Ever since Pluto was discovered in 1930, it has completed barely 1/3 of its own 248 year orbit around the Sun.
Another favorite Pluto song. The one that started them all.  By Folk singer Christine Lavin. http://bit.ly/1gtkmOM
My Favorite Pluto song: @JonathanCoulton sings of the demotion, as felt by Pluto’s moon Charon: http://bit.ly/1CuyWj8
#PlutoFacts:  Earth’s Moon is five times more massive than Pluto.  Get over it.
#PlutoFacts:  More than half of Pluto’s volume is ice.  I’m just saying.
#PlutoFacts: The only objects in the Solar System whose orbits cross those of planets are asteroids, comets, & Pluto.
What the Twitterverse needs right now is even more Pluto. Give me some space...
Evidence for global warming comes in many forms.
I once showed Pluto to Pluto. He looked delighted. Or maybe that’s his reaction to everything.
Just an FYI: Pluto and I buried the hatchet a long time ago. And we’ve been pals ever since.
The Pluto Flyby: A reliable and timely source for all the latest info & images @elakdawalla  http://bit.ly/1LwIhcH
Didn’t think I was #ThugLife material, but I’m now in the club. Commenting on Pyramids to @RealSway: http://bit.ly/1Jibipj
Enjoying colorful fireworks tonight? Thank Aluminum Barium Calcium Chlorine Copper Iron Nitrogen Oxygen Sodium & Strontium.
The study of the universe is the oldest science, but likely only the second oldest profession.
And yup. Today, June 30, 2015, was also Asteroid Day: http://www.asteroidday.org
Look up this eve, or the next. Venus sparkles in the west.  Gracing twilight’s glow, find Jupiter nearby, seeminglhy in tow.
At the (slow) rate the Moon is tidally locking Earth, the Sun will die before it succeeds — a more important concern for all.
Contrary to Pink Floyd's 1973 album-cover proclamation, there is no Dark Side of the Moon. A day there simply lasts a month.
Earth has already tidally locked the Moon, which is why it shows only one face to Earth - the “near” side.
The Moon’s Motivation: Luna is desperately trying to slow Earth’s rotation so that one Earth day eventually equals one Month.
Leap Second around the world.  Arrives in 30 seconds.
Yes, it’s possible to be a supreme holy figure yet still know what you are talking about regarding the Climate.
The Pope employs a dozen full time astrophysicists as part of the four-century old Vatican Observatory http://bit.ly/1HvBH5I
As I get older, I’ve become more and more intolerant of intolerance.
As always, I celebrate my leap seconds with very tiny bottles of champagne.
The last Leap Second added was June 30, 2012. Here’s what it looked like from the Eastern Time Zone.
Since 1972, after we discovered we keep better time than Earth does, we’ve added 25 leap secs. Done only on June 30 & Dec 31.
June 30th's leap second will manifest as an extra second in the last minute of the day, Greenwich time. ( 7h 59m 60s  PM  ET)
The Moon continually tugs on Earth’s rotation, slowing us down bit by bit. To compensate, Tuesday, June 30 gets a leap second
Name-calling is what happens when you desperately want to argue, but you are in fact inarticulate.
The day with most sunlight: Happy Summer Solstice to Earth residents north of the equator. Now thru Dec 21 days get shorter.
If you're good at BS'ing others, then all it means is that you rarely hang around people who are smarter than you.
My favorite line in "The Martian" trailer, uttered by Matt Damon, is “I’m going to have to science the shit out of this.”.
In 5-billion yrs the Sun will expand & engulf our orbit as the charred ember that was once Earth vaporizes. Have a nice day.
Just an FYI: Stepping on an Ant is equivalent to a creature 10,000 times more massive than a Blue Whale stepping on you.
From what I have seen of society, the number of people who will tell you what you cannot accomplish in life is limitless.
Still distracted by the fact that "The Los Angeles @Angels" baseball team literally translates to "The The Angels Angels".
Cool Fact: Helium was discovered on the Sun before it was discovered on Earth. Was thus named for Helios, the Greek Sun god.
Or maybe Cherubs are actually filled with Helium. But Helium wasn’t discovered until 1868, long after most Cherubs were drawn.
Okay. You want chubby babies to fly for real?  Give 'em ten foot (3-meter) wing-spans, like Condors, which weigh the same.
Given how chubby cherubs are, it's clear their itty bitty wings are aerodynamically useless to them.
Curious fact that those who never fail are also those who never truly succeed.
For Algebra Geeks: If the thickness of a pizza is A, and its radius is Z, and pi is just PI, then its volume is V = PIZZA.
In other words, if the crust of a 14-inch pizza is 1-inch wide, then the next 1-inch band occupies 30% of the topping's area.
If the cheese on a 14-inch pizza falls just 1-inch shy of the crust, the pie is missing 30% of the cheese that could be there.
A 14-inch pizza is 154 square inches of food.  Nearly twice as large as the 78 square inches of a 10-inch pie.
Odd that pizza is sold by the inch, but consumed by the square-inch. This fact confuses assessment of pricing and toppings.
In Math, dividing by zero is “undefined.” So why doesn't @JohnAllenPaulos define the thing so I can return to my calculations.
Okay two more legit Alien IDs: If you are of Mercury you are Mercurial. And if you are of Jupiter, by jove, you are Jovian.
Last one: The Latinized name for Earth is Terra. If you are human "of the Earth" you are Terrable. (Just kidding, Earthlings).
Want More? The Moon's Latinized name is Luna.  If you are "of the Moon” youre simply “Lunar”.  Lunatics are something else..
Not that anybody asked, but the Sun's Latinized name is Sol.  If you are "of the Sun" you are simply “Solar”.
Venus is the Roman goddess of love & sexuality. And so medical doctors assigned Venereal - “of Venus” to all related diseases.
Ceres is the Roman goddess of agriculture and grain crops, which indeed gives us our breakfast word Cereal --  "of Ceres".
Gotta give you that one @elakdawalla.  If you’re from the Dwarf Planet Ceres, you’d surely be Cereal.
From Venus? Then you’re Venusian. But the proper term is Venereal. Unfortunately Doctors nabbed it before Astrophysicists did.
And it seems to me that any life forms we discover within Jupiter’s icy moon Europa would rightly be called Europeans.
Seems to me, if we discover any life forms from the Vega star system (constellation Lyrae) they'd rightly be called Vegans.
Creating the Universe is one thing, but writing a hit Broadway takes real talent. Congrats to @TheTweetOfGod for "AnActofGod".
At The Who concert listening to 71yr old R. Daltrey & 70 yr old P. Townsend sing their lyric "I hope I die before I get old.".
What Manhattanhenge will look like TONIGHT, beginning 8:10pm, (Fri, May 29) at a cross street near you.
Cross streets lit by sunset’s fiery light, rendering our urban canyons aglow. Behold #Manhattanhenge http://bit.ly/1wrJZDi
Thinking the World today is particularly violent? During World War II, an average of 1,000 people were killed per hour.
I wonder who was the first person to see a bird soaring high above & think it a good idea to capture it and lock it in a cage.
If you’re a creepy-stalker-fan of my work, then this shirt was just posted too: http://bit.ly/1y4LDwA
Yup. “The Good Thing About Science…” is now on a Tee-shirt: http://bit.ly/1zSYeDQ
Curious fact that any time we lose a person who sings the Blues, as we just did in #BBKing, the World becomes a sadder place.
Just an FYI: Well-funded Political Action Committees are not buying your vote, they're buying media influence over your vote.
When flight attendants say "Cabin is pressurized for your comfort” they mean "so you don't suffocate from oxygen deprivation".
Okay to encourage others to pull themselves up by their bootstraps. But if you do, just remember, some people have no boots.
If you removed all the arteries, veins, & capillaries from a person's body, and tied them end-to-end, the person will die.
Our “Common Sense" is not derived from what is true in Nature but from the limits on how our senses interact with Nature.
Try as I might, I cannot resist this geek-laden, lisp-inducing, annual utterance: "May the fourth be with you."
The less evidence we have for what we believe is certain, the more violently we defend beliefs against those who don't agree.
The total number "What-are-the-odds?" moments that can happen is so large, we should instead think of rare events as common.
Seems to me, every day should be Earth Day.
Okay to not know. But when you don't know, yet think you know, and wield power in that ignorance, it's a recipe for disaster.
If there is a cat Heaven, and if cat Heaven has mice for cats to chase, seems to me that cat Heaven must then be mice Hell.
I will neither confirm nor deny that you heard my voice in the @BatmanvSuperman trailer: http://bit.ly/1yDabPI
Ass-shaking astrophysics in Miami beach: [Video: 1m 15s] http://bit.ly/1yFoXp3
Yup. @SpaceX & funky dance moves do go together. Parody of @BrunoMars. Yes, his name is Mars. [3m 30s] http://bit.ly/1E2AdxX
If curious, a peek at the anatomy of my Tweets - via http://Space.com  [Video: 4 min] http://bit.ly/1JKIPrH
.@joeLucas9: So how would you state it?  Teach! // "Rocket to Stardom" works for me.
Meteors meet fiery deaths as they plunge through Earth’s atmosphere. So the term “Meteoric Rise” makes no sense whatsoever.
If you're curious: First mammals to orbit Earth, in order: Dog, Guinea Pig, Mouse, Russian Human, Chimpanzee, American Human.
Fifty-four years ago, Yuri Gagarin is launched into orbit by the Soviets. He is the 4th mammal species to achieve this feat.
On #FamilyGuy Brian sweats, But Dogs don’t have sweat glands. I then figured Dogs don’t talk either. So I left that one alone
The word “awesome" once described things like Moon landings & cures for disease. Today, it’s an unexpected feature in an App.
As we did last year, Ozzie and I wish all Christians (and Bunny lovers) a Happy Easter.
Forgot to mention: Saturday's full moon will be Totally Eclipsed. Aussies & Asians get the best view. http://bit.ly/1EITijg
2015: If this year’s April full Moon arrived 12 hours later, it would fall on Sunday, April 5th, pushing Easter to April 12th.
FYI: Easter barely lands on April 5th. RULE: First Sunday after first Full Moon after March Equinox. Full Moon is Saturday.
Another way to look at “Religious Freedom” laws, is that they give you the legal right to make less money.
If the Pledge of Allegiance told the truth:
I don't mind trolls. But if you're going to be one, then please try to stay on topic.
Ever notice how Vampires & dead people, who sit up in their caskets, do so with a straight back? They must have good abs.
Wanna find a planet, this chilly Spring night?  Find the gibbous Moon, by Jove, and Jupiter's nearby & bright.
Every now and then I get the impression that people would rather react before they think.
If I were ever abducted by aliens, the first thing I’d ask is whether they came from a planet where people also deny science.
PlanetVenus & crescent Moon grace this evening's twilight skies. Look West, where the Sun has set. This feast is for the eyes
No matter the sports you’ve played, if you’ve ever wrestled you’ll say it’s the hardest thing you’ve ever done.@NCAAWrestling
Yup.  They happened today.  Total Solar Eclipse & the March Equinox. A Cosmic Ballet choreographed by the forces of gravity.
Cool.  The Moon, Sun, International Space Station, & Earth, all lined up.  via @ObservingSpace
This morning's Moon is about the same phase & sky position captured by Van Gogh in "The Starry Night"
Almost forgot to wish a happy St. Patrick's Day to President Barack O'Bama.
You’re curious -- I can feel it. How many digits of Pi before the numerals 0123456789 appear in sequence? 17,387,594,879
I’m all Pi’ed out.  But okay, one more…
Yup. I’ve been Pi-Lingual since childhood. I want to be ready. May need it in a first exchange of greetings with Space Aliens
Want to know the true value of Pi?  $9.49 a slice at @CarnegieDeli, NYC
A year ago, I interviewed @TheTweetOfGod for @StarTalkRadio, and he explained Pi. [at t = 14m 35s] http://bit.ly/LpOYR3
The Bible’s best estimate for Pi:  3.0  (1 Kings 7:23)
The “P” sound in the Greek letter Pi evokes “periphery”.  Multiply any circle's diameter by Pi and you get its circumference.
Get your Geek on. Time to fit all the digits of Pi into a single tweet:  Pi in base Pi = 10
My next tweet will contain every single digit of Pi...
Best Pi-Day of the future: 6 minutes & 53 seconds after 2 o’clock, May 9 (or Sept 5),  the year 3141:  3141/5/9; 2:6:53
Best Pi-Day Ever:  53 minutes & 58 seconds after 6 o’clock, March 14, the year 1592:  3/14/1592; 6:53:58.
Enough Pi for everyone:  3.14159265358979323846264338327950288419716939937510582097494459230781640628620899862803482534211706
Pi, written with enough digits to show all numerals in base 10:  3.14159265358979323846264338327950

